[Music]
Hello and welcome to pitch brand talk
your front row seat to how brands think
move and inspire. Today we're in a
conversation with Sheena Kapoor head
marketing corporate communications and
CSR at ICICI Lombard. Welcome Sheena.
>> Hi Ana. Thank you. It's a pleasure being
here. So let's dive right in. Insurance
is often seen as a tough low involvement
category. What excites you personally
about marketing in the space? H very
interesting. Um yes it is seen as a low
involvement and a complex category. Um
but I think for me you know what's
exciting is one that I get to be part of
a brand like IC Lombard which is India's
numeroono private journal insurance
player uh with that you know scale comes
the responsibility to be and the canvas
to be able to play a larger role and
impact uh from a marketing perspective
on the category from the insurance uh
side I find that there is so much of
education and there is so much of
awareness building that one needs to
still do for a country as large as ours.
Um and especially when you talk about a
category like insurance, right? And
you're talking about even on the you
know non-life or the general insurance
category. Um let's take motor insurance
for example. Uh the fact that it is
mandatory you know still does not all go
well from a penetration perspective.
you're still talking about very low
penetration levels um in a country as
large as ours even though it's mandatory
um you know even if you talk about
health insurance like you know the
pandemic and covid you know at least
brought about a larger awareness and the
need for health insurance um but by and
large you find that there are a lot of
barriers from a consumer perspective
about adoption of insurance products so
for me you know personally I find this
very challenging and exciting as well to
be able to work in an environment and a
category which is a necessity not just a
luxury but you are trying to battle and
you know a lot of myths that are
associated with this. You're trying to
bust a lot of um the barriers that are
um you know existent in consumer's minds
with respect to they possibly see this
as um as a needless expense or that
there may be a trust deficit you know
with certain um the category or the
players or you know in in terms of how
it was sold in the past um and the
opportunity itself is is so humongous um
you know India is um the sixth largest
um you know in terms of fastest growing
insurance market and uh you know we are
um we are already uh going to be in the
top uh 10 in in you know in a decade to
come. So you are talking about a cuss
off where India is at you know a
burgeoning population and a bjoning
tremendous potential that this category
really presents and as a marketeer I
think for me to be able to bridge that
gap for an industry that is growing
where the opportunity is huge where
you're trying to also um bridge the
penetration gap and you're trying to at
the same time you know um demystify by
the complexity involved inherently in
insurance and you're trying to also
bring about a change in consumer
behavior and perception uh to drive
adoption uh therefore for the insurers
um by and large I think that itself uh
gives you um a pedestal and platform to
be able to play a larger uh role and
thereby bring about a larger impact and
difference,
>> right? So, consumers today want simple
digital force experiences, right? But
while regulations are also pushing for
more awareness, how have you adapted
your communication to meet these
expectations?
So, you know, again, we follow um a
360deree integrated marketing approach
in terms of our communication. Um and uh
you know first and foremost it starts
fundamentally with the objective of what
is it that you are trying to um you know
communicate and why and to whom um and
what is it that you're hoping to get as
an outcome. I think you know if you ask
yourself those fundamental questions
that itself uh determine a lot of your
strategies at play. Um we have been you
know um you know we have taken a lot of
uh communication uh strategies and
initiatives uh regarding our marketing
playbook uh which has been very
innovative which has been differentiated
which has been very agile nimble and
we've used a lot of gen AI tools uh for
instance we were you know um as a brand
first uh in the industry and even across
um you know BFSI or nonvi categories. We
have been the first brand to actually
launch an entire gen AIled campaign you
know right from scripting editing
production. Um so and we keep trying to
up the ante you know even if it is on um
you know a product um you know like
elevate let's take our hero product of
health insurance elevate uh that we
launched last year the entire product
will you know hinges on um very
revolutionary features which are on on
infinite proposition whether it's
infinite reset infinite sum in short
infinite uh coverage, you know, um an
infinite claim amount. And you know, if
if I told you as a customer that, hey,
there is absolutely no ceiling, no limit
to how much you could claim or how much
grow you can get, you know? Um and a
product is is structured like that,
right? As a marketeer, you want to bring
that about in a beautiful, innovative,
creative storytelling format. And you
know, for this, we thought it was
nothing less than magic itself. And
therefore we used a magician. Uh if you
look at our tripsecure product which is
on travel insurance which itself again
is an AI powered um you know product. Um
and again here you know we wanted to do
something different and u and so we uh
used an AIEL theme and an anthem. Um and
it's actually a song. Uh it's it's not a
film. It's not your usual, you know,
run-of-the-mill ad, print ad, or a film
uh commercial on travel insurance. Uh
we've actually done that seamlessly
through a song with the lyrics itself,
you know, tell you about the uh product
and the proposition. And we did this
again from a seamless, you know, hosting
on on platforms like radio and uh
Spotify. So that even as a commuter if
you're listening to it it's part of your
playlist and very seamlessly the message
gets integrated you know about the need
for travel insurance. Um but you know
even beyond this even if you look at um
to give you another example the endeavor
is always to be you know close to the
customers and to be able to respond in
the language that they that they are
they're able to relate to and that they
understand. So the emphasis is on
simplicity and is in being ex where the
ecosystem of the customers and channel
partners are. You bring the brand and
the message right to them where they
are. So you know for instance our entire
um branding and um uh you know the
rights that we've taken for an iconic
metro station like Cindi Vinak. So you
know it wasn't just for the bragging and
branding rights as IC Salombad Sadag
metro station. Um yes it it gives you
the amplifier and leverage the
visibility but if you look at it
fundamentally there was um synergy you
know with what um you know a a temple
like Siddhivan
um holds and the reverence and the
respect that it holds. But it really you
know the the divine power associated
with um a temple like Siddhivay embodies
uh protection right as Lord Ganesha and
you know we're in the midst and the
thick of Gpati celebrations that's
really what Gpati stands for um and if
you look at it synergistically you know
as an insurer that's protection is what
we stand for as well and therefore there
was a synergy um not just that you know
the color orange that is associated ated
with Siddhivan Gpati is is also happens
to be our brand colors you know for
blood and and the IC group in fact you
know um and the fact that there is
proximity to you know where our um our
head office is also situated you know so
it it worked on on that front but even
at the metro station we put together um
and again it's one of its kind we've put
together a health booth you know so that
commuters and we are seeing lacks of
commuters and footfalls on a daily
basis. Um that they can engage with the
booth, get their vitals just as simply
as standing in front of a screen and you
know in under two minutes you get your
entire health vitals or you can do you
know there's a BMI machine and you get
to you know assess your uh BMI and see
how where you stand on the you know
health index. These are very you know
simple um uh strategies and activations
which make the brand authentic relevant
um and um and it is also you know part
of the cultural fabric. So it's it's
very seamlessly integrated I think you
know so for us the endeavor has always
been um as a marketeer and from a brand
narrative to stay true and authentic to
your brand purpose to why you are here
as an enabler you know for your
customers and um as as a protector in in
their times of need. Um and in fact we
have moved from an entire um you know uh
from a passive to a proactive approach.
So it's not just about prescriptive that
you know should you get hospitalized we
have health insurance to cover or should
your you know car get damaged during
flood or an accident we have a motor
insurance. In fact we moving the needle
to you know empathy and care based
communication. So it's all about
prevention. Our flagship appare which
you know now has over 20 million
subscribers you know. Yeah. Um that app
uh Ana allows for a lot of operations
such as 24/7 doctor consultation on
video. you know at 2 am in the morning
you want to chat with a doctor on pick
you can do that uh to pharmacy you can
order your medicines to an ambulance to
you know um dietary plan with
nutritionist to a step tracker to a face
scan you know which I spoke about an
innovative feature where you know you
can just check your vitals like your
SPO2 your blood oxygen your um you know
your BP your heart rate your pulse rate
you know all of that in under two
minutes. Um, now these are just tools to
show the customers that we care. It's
it's not transaction. We want to really
invest in building a relationship with
our customers that that lasts, you know,
the entire life cycle and journey. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
So, younger audiences in today's age,
especially the Gen Z and the millennials
are often skeptical about financial
products. So what does it take to really
connect with them?
So yes, you know, the the new age, the
new gen, um whether it's Gen Z, you
know, the alpha, um one thing that and
and there are a lot of, you know, quirks
associated
uh with this gen. But fundamentally, I
think as a population, as a demogorg,
they are digital first. They're digital
natives, right? So what that means is
the the consumption of um you know
anything that they consume from content
to services uh to the way they transact
is is led by a very digitalbased psyche
um you know um and therefore it is the
usage of platforms um so you know uh
which are platform specific you know our
communication on on Insta is very
different from how it would be on on a
print um you know so usage of you know
um short uh formats of realbased uh
communicate of making it very engaging
and yet simple um you know of um also
being authentic and purpose driven uh
because um I think this new gen is also
very conscious about the values um that
you know they want to stand by and they
the brands that they associate with,
they're also looking for inherent values
that are synergistic with their own
values. So whether it's about
sustainability or whether the brand
message is authentic or whether it's
about innovation um and you know again
what this entire generation is is today
fed on an entire ecosystem where you are
used to getting services at your
fingertips, right? Whether it's ordering
a dosa or your dal travel or you know
your television or just name it what
have you everything or even a parcel
delivery or a pick you know is happening
in under 10 minutes right so what that
forces you to do as as a category itself
is also you know it it compels us that
if we have to cater to this generation
you have to be able to talk that same
lingo that same language age and also
come as close to um you know the the
ecom and the quick commerce model you
know of delivery um and therefore it
compels us that even your policy
issuances we've gone completely
paperless you know uh you get that
completely on WhatsApp um you know you
can purchase our policy you can chat uh
with a chatbot where you would actually
think that you're chatting with a human
agent but actually our our our chatbot
agent are itself so intelligent um you
know and that we built it such that
they're able to have a you know a
complete conversation um as as a human
um you know you get the entire whether
it's renewals whether it's your um
should there be a claim and a status of
your claims or you know if you want to
know um um whether your claim has been
approved as well everything is now
enabled um via a WhatsApp journey and
it's as easy as chat ing on WhatsApp or
if you want you know it's over a phone
call um and and of course the web and
the isle take care app that I spoke
about so we've given a lot of digital
first you know um platforms and tools um
to cater to the new gen um not not just
that like I mentioned on innovation so a
lot of our genai you know campaigns and
themes and communication um that itself
again is very refreshing very innovative
uh like I mentioned Our trip secure
travel product is done over a song you
know and and it's primarily to cater to
the new audience you know because I know
that they're the ones who are consuming
Spotify right so if I have to talk to
that uh consumer I want to be able to
talk in that same language on the
platform that they are in and the
content that they're consuming so that
it's seamless um you know we we talk
about authenticity you know um our CSR
uh programs for instance you know we're
very big on on road safety um from our
CSR perspective. Now even on on our road
safety initiatives, our communication
actually features actual road victims
who are survivors
um you know of road accidents simply
because they were wearing a helmet. Um
that itself brings about an authentic
storytelling, right? And we didn't use
models, we used, you know, real stories,
real people. Um because uh again that
that connects um you know we spoke about
tats like I said you know on 10-minute
delivery you know um most of our now you
know over 70% of our um you know
approvals on on health insurance on
cashless is is under um is is within
minutes and you know the entire
reimbursement and the cashless
facilities under one hour. um you know
we are also able you know over 95 96% of
our um motor insurance is is cashless
again so you know one also has used
different um tools like I mentioned on
on chat bots where you're able to answer
FAQs or you know to simplify
communication about policy lang language
or inclusions or exclusions or what a
policy document entails and making it
very very simple as easy as just
chatting you know and saying hey does
this policy cover XYZ and you'll get an
entire uh you know response as well um
and we've using you know Gen AI ML data
science um you know very very
aggressively and we're investing in this
big time to be able to bring in a lot
more efficiency effectiveness um to be
able to reduce stats further
um and also drive um you know
acquisition and adoption and all the
while you know our tonality on
communication marketing is to stay
relevant engaging humorous authentic um
at the same time you know real and
enduring.
So you've mentioned AI, you've mentioned
digital tools. So these things
transforming BFSI marketing. How do you
balance the techdriven efficiency with
also building credibility and trust with
the consumers?
>> Right. Um I think a large part of that I
already covered.
>> Yeah. um with um with with my answers
earlier, but you know like you spoke
about trust right? Yeah.
>> Now the with with any generation not
just the new age um you know insurance
fundamentally is is a promise inherently
because unlike any other service or
transaction. Think about it. If you um
you buy, you know, you go to a store and
you buy an apparel or you buy a a mobile
phone or you buy, you know, a meal um or
you know, you uh you take um you know,
whoever service, right? You stay at a
hotel or you take a flight. There is an
exchange of transaction with the money
and you're getting the service or the
product that you you know implied or
wanted intended right there and then or
even if there is a delay it's a very
short um and and it's the timeline which
is known to you like if you know that
okay I have bought my um you know uh my
television 40 in you know uh whatever
television set a smart TV and it's going
to get delivered say in in 15 days or 20
days you know what you're getting for
the money that you have spent right
unlike insurance and this is where the
category is very unique and different
because here the customer has paid a
premium and both the insurer and the
customer is hoping that you actually
don't ever need to take that claim and
service right because
>> no one wants wants to get hospitalized.
No one wants to be, you know, in part of
an unfortunate or unforeseen incident.
But life is not like that, right? Life's
unpredictable and life may throw you
certain curve balls. So therefore
insurance is trust is very inherent and
very crucial in this transaction because
it's inherently a promise that tomorrow
you know when you do need a claim I am
there by your side and I've got your
back right and therefore the money that
you paid me two years prior three years
prior and you've been paying me a
premium you know say for four years you
know and now is when suddenly there is
an unforeseen event that the insurer
therefore is giving you the service that
you paid for and the expectation that
you will be there and therefore this
entire transaction and deal and
relationship rests and resides on trust
and so you know for us it's um it's
fundamental and crucial and you know at
at IC Lombard and we take this um very
very um you know um give this a lot of
prominence and and sensitivity and
gravitas that it deserves. Uh especially
because a like I mentioned you know
we're market leaders. Um b you know the
legacy that we enjoy with uh you know
with our parentage of ICA group and ICA
bank you know. So um we have those
values and that brand also to uphold. Um
and for us you know we uh our claim
settlement our claim ratios um and and
our NPS scores and that's how we also
you know keep um monitoring um our our
services and our entire operations you
know and business um from a customer um
you know uh life cycle um right from the
time you know you may have purchased to
right up to renewal you know um a
cashless or a reimbursement claim, you
know, the entire life cycle. We actually
keep monitoring multiple parameters and
this happens, you know, on an ongoing
all through the year basis where we deep
dive on every aspect of our business
behind the scenes, on our communication,
on our sales centers, you know, on on
our um documentation, on our chats, on
um you know, on the uh technology side.
And you know there's like you know
plethora of parameters and there's you
know a proper research uh conducted and
you know we do a deep dive uh survey and
we do this across cross functional teams
and then we table this um you know at
very senior uh levels where we also
report you know and consistently uh we
monitor our customer satisfaction and
NPS scores. It's all really to see the
experience and that the service and you
know the promise and the trust that we
want to continue to build you know is is
upheld. Um even on retention for
instance you know we um we are very very
clear now we over the last year and a
half we have um invested uh very deeply
uh again on retention and uh renewals
because you know we want to be able to
drive our persistency levels. um we
don't want to give um you know any um
reason for our customers to not stay
with us or you know um to go ahead with
any other uh product or an insurance. So
we you know we want to be able to retain
um the relationship and we want to
continue um the trust that has been
reposed in us and you know again very
pleased to share that we have been able
to service over the last now nearly 25
years over 50 million policy holders you
know um across the length and breadth of
the country and uh we have an entire
ecosystem to thank for it including
lacks of our channel partners and you
millions of our customers and you know
with that kind of scale it cannot happen
and exists without trust you know being
um uh reposed and without the trust
being honored. So yeah, so I think
you've covered most of the points that I
wanted to ask you. But finally looking
ahead, what part of marketing are you
most excited to explore at ICICI Lombard
in the coming years?
Um
well um there's there's always a lot
happening at uh ICC Lombard. Um we have
uh we have some very ambitious uh plans.
Um uh you know some of it I may not be
at liberty to uh you know disclose at
this stage. Um but we are very bullish
on um on on health insurance on theme
insurance. We are um you know very uh
bullish also on our corporate insurance
uh side in terms of you know um risk
management and IRMA which happens to be
one of our longstanding IP which is on
India risk management um you know awards
um and we want to take on that thought
leadership platform and continue to uh
stay invested in that um Gen AI
continues to be I'm a big big proponent
and advocate of Gen AI I I and I
personally am you know I'm very
enthusiastic
um and excited about the possibilities.
Um so we continue to leverage uh a lot
of geni you know in in marketing um
across whether it's from video um
campaign or creation and translations or
you know content or uh you know images
um you know and now going into research
and you know social media and sentiment
analysis and so on. Um the other um
aspect is um also from an industry
standpoint our um you know we've just a
few months back we recently launched um
the entire um GI um industry awareness
campaign at Chakia insurance and again
proud as part of the you know marketing
committee and as part of the general
insurance council um as IC Lombard and
along with our peers
we've been able to play a you know a
significant part in in that um narrative
and storytelling and campaign and
bringing that you know in its multiple
aars of 360°ree integrated approach um
and you know it fulfills the it's a big
commitment um towards the vision that
the regulator ID has already set forth
you know for 2047 insurance for all by
2047 right so this is all a step and
endeavor towards that. Um another aspect
is you know for Bihar and Tripura the
two states that have been allocated to
us that we continue to again um you know
deep dive um and drive awareness and
penetration in in these um areas. I also
along with marketing uh look after CSR.
Um so from a CSR perspective again you
know for us um it's it's about um
deepening our our approach and our
impact um on um healthcare and um on
road safety and sustainability and work
in tandem closely with uh the parent ICA
foundation um and uh you know for me
personally it's it's about innovation um
that remains a cornerstone um you know
and authentic um uh crafting authentic
and enduring uh storytelling. So yeah,
it's
um there's there's there's a
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you so much, Shina. It was a
pleasure you wereing your thoughts.
Thank you for sharing your such
wonderful insights with us today.
>> Right. Thank you and it's been a
pleasure likewise. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.